Good evening, and gentlemen, and welcome to a
new series, one I'm really excited about. I've
been kind of putting this off for a
while, but I thought, alright. Let's just do
this. This is sort of a modern interpretation
of the trivia. And the idea here is
the modern education system, which I don't wanna
spend a lot of time criticizing, I've done
that before, it certainly has a different style
education than one would have received in the
classical world or renaissance world, and there's a
lot of reasons to want to rethink that.
Another aspect of it is for people who
either did not have the opportunity to have
an education or the kind of education they
want or were educated, went to college, but
found that the education they received, while it
may have achieved some other goals, really didn't
provide what they wanted. And so I received
a lot of messages. In fact, the number
one set of questions and emails that I
receive tend to revolve around this question. So
I thought, okay, at long last, here is
what I'm calling a modern take on the
trivium, and how to reconceptualize this and do
this for yourself. So this is how can
one go about educating oneself in the modern
world, but within the context of how education
used to be done in the classical world.
So that's the goal of of this series,
and there's a lot there to go over,
but I want in this first introductory section
is talk about sort of the background, what
this means, and why this might be coming
up so repeatedly as a topic, sort of
frame it. Then I'll get into more concrete
aspects of this in the following lectures. So
to begin with, to understand that in in
the classical world, and this is so this
is a mix of, you know, ancient Greece,
ancient Rome, you know, Renaissance, Europe, and sort
of classical China. Those are sort of the
models that I'm drawing on here, and a
little bit more about that in a second.
But the idea was if you were getting
an education, you were an important person by
definition. And so the goal of the education
was allow you to express and use the
power that you almost certainly were going to
have. And the real core of it boils
down to a very simply simple to articulate,
difficult to execute concept, which is to understand
yourself. If you think about man as the
measure of all things, classical Greek claim, well,
this means that understanding yourself becomes core to
understanding other things, of course, because you're using
yourself as a yard stick. And second, then
to understand the world. So all you need
to do to give a classical view on
all this is to have a good grasp
of yourself and a complete understanding of the
world. So, again, easy to articulate, a bit
tricky in execution, of course. However, this doesn't
mean that it is impossible. It just means
that it's, you know, it's it's always a
work in progress. This is never completed. And
so to address this and try to bring
these sorts concepts in the modern world, it
would be inappropriate. It would be sort of
a misrepresentation to simply say, okay. This is
what they did in ancient Greece and or
this is what they did in in ancient
Rome. Just copy that because the context is
so completely different that even if you did
exactly what they did you would not achieve
what I'm sort of having to guesstimate people
are actually after which is sort of the
results of the kind of education that was
being granted in those times rather than, you
know, a strict copy of precisely their methods.
Although in some cases, let's just strictly copy
their methods where they seem appropriate. But some
of this just contextually makes no sense. For
instance, the notion, of course, if you were
in the ancient Greek world, being completely fluent
and and perfecting your ancient Greek really mattered.
And similarly, if you're in the Roman world,
actually, the the the leaders of Rome spoke
Greek as well. So this is one of
their big distinguishers quality, but, of course, their
Latin needs to be very effective as well.
So but and and then famously, of course,
for a lot of times, the use of
Latin became distinguish or of someone who was
educated. So having a really high quality Latin
meant that you were super educated. Now that
kind of model, it it just doesn't make
sense in the modern world. But learning English
actually would be more appropriate because Latin was
the language of power in the world, and
today English is the language of power, in
in one way to think about this. So,
you know, just doing a rote copy makes
no sense. And so what I'm doing is
trying to construct what those elements that I
think are most apposite for trying to achieve
RNs today. And to wit, I am drawing
on a sort of mix of the classical
trivium and quadrivium, which I'll talk about. These
are the two classical systems of ancient Rome,
obviously, from tri and quad. A smattering of
the Renaissance because the Renaissance introduced some some
more elements as civilization is progressing, as the
context changes, becomes more modern, and a dash
of Taoism, which I think is an important
element to add, particularly in the modern world
oddly, that Taoism has some some core educational
concepts that I think really do translate well
to the sorts of challenges we face today
that speak to some issues that were less
relevant in the classical era, but they still
talked about. So, note, this is this is
a mix, and this is sort of an
idiosyncratic mix. Like, this is not again, I
could lay out the trivium and quadrivium for
you. No problem. Go, this is what you
do. That would be very simple. You could
look this up. It's not that complicated, but
I don't think this is what people really
want or what they're what they're interested in.
So this is idiosyncratic though, so I wanna
I wanna underline that and not go like,
this is what the trivium is. No, this
is a sort of application of the core
principles of the trivium as you can interpret
that in the world that we actually inhabit
today as opposed to one from, you know,
two thousand years ago. Second, this is not
the education I received. So this is an
important note like I'm not saying this is
the process that I went through I would
have loved to have gone through this process
however I was not raised in a house
that had books we didn't really do books
we really didn't do education, went to a
series of sort of sketch educational institutions as
I'm sure many of us did. I was
fortunate enough to live at a time when
I could go to college and support myself
working and so today I know this is
a ridiculous thought for people in The United
States at least, the notion that just just
working a sort of sketchy job or a
series of sketchy job that I had, you
know, worked at a hardware store, worked at
a sandwich shop, I did odd jobs in
the summer, know, that but but even doing
that I was still able to pay my
tuition and, you know, stay in school for
absurd number of years because I, you know,
just kept going. But that is one of
the things that was fortunate for me. But
in doing this process, I just took, I
always took random. I took anything that I
thought looked interesting to me in the course
catalog and because it was sufficiently affordable I
was able to do that as an undergrad
for five years and take just a crazy
collection of courses under no sort of organizing
principle except for a while it occurred to
me that looked interesting in the course catalog
let's enroll in that. So I am not
claiming that oh I went through this system
and then this helped me you know produce
what I produce today because it's not true.
There are core elements here that I wish
I had that I sort of feel like
I had to backfill for myself because I
did not have the kind of background or
culture of learning that would have made this
much easier and much simpler for me. And
so the people I really want to speak
to, well I want to speak to everyone
of course, but really if you feel like
again you either got an education that didn't
fit you or that you didn't have that
opportunity, you know, maybe you're an immigrant, you
don't have the money, you don't have the
language skills, all these sorts of things. Like,
this is what I'm trying to do is
reconstruct a system and say, hey, you know,
there you the world is there. This is
available to you. This sort of education is
possible, and and here's how to go about
doing it. And then finally, and this is
sort of the warning about this content, is
the problem with the classical education. Barzan speaks
about this in other terms. If in the
book House of the Intellect, if anybody's interested,
lots of interesting things to talk about in
there from Barzan. Other thinkers have talked about
this as well. How do you put this?
Well, it's a it's you're going to be
alienated. It's an alienating process because in essence,
the kind of classical education that that that
you might be interested in and the kind
that was received in the ancient world in
the Renaissance was rare, it set you apart.
And anytime you set yourself apart from your
culture, what you're doing is you, to a
certain extent, you're alienating yourself. So you may
understand yourself better, you may understand your culture
better, but in the process of that, you're
gonna make yourself strange. You're gonna make your
culture strange, you're gonna make yourself strange. And
to the extent that you've inculcated the values
of your culture that you're about to interrogate
from a very different standpoint, you are alienating
yourself from yourself, from your learned patterns, from
your expectations. And so this is not a
optional element. It is a necessary element. It
will have this setting yourself aside impact if
you do pursue to choose to pursue this
and the extent you choose to pursue it
this this is part of the impact that
will have. So it is it is a
discovery but it is one that does change
the way your outlook and will make your
outlook very different from considerably different from most
of the people you'll interact with most of
the time. And again, this isn't a variable,
or a maybe. It is to the extent
that you're successful at this. It will absolutely
be true. The flip side of that, as
I said before, is the the goal of
and the core of a classical education is
to understand yourself better, understand your world better
so that you can express your power and
your potential. This is really it's very simple.
It's not a complex sort of equation that
they that they drew up, but it's because
if you were getting these types of education,
you were already an important person or someone
who had a real chance of being an
important person because these educations were unbelievably expensive
private tutors, lots of time, you know, you
had to travel to do this to get
your Greeks, people would finish in in Rome,
you would send your your promising young sons,
sorry, this is gonna be sons, off to
Athens just to learn, get their Greek perfect,
because you had really good Greek, that was,
of course, now you're really someone important. And
so the expense and time and hiring specialized
slaves or freemen who were who could train
you, it's unbelievably expensive. And so you were
assumed that you were going to be someone
quite important. And so when they were educating
people, this was the idea. You're gonna be
powerful or you already are. You're an important
person. You're gonna be more important. And so
that's how you wanna be educated. The education
of someone who's powerful, who's gonna need to
understand themselves in the world so that they
can express that and and and exert control
over the environment in which they inhabit. So
that goal, you know, pled to the conquest
of the Roman Empire, which may be not
that great. But if we if if we
assume that we're not going to try and
conquer the world, although, you know, it's up
to you, you know, it is this notion
of trying to find the what's innate in
you and being able to express and, you
know, make that those concepts, ideas, understandings, having
efficacy in the world in in a particular
kind of way that we'll talk about more.
But that that's the goal. This is this
is what they were shooting for and sometimes
achieved. So with that background in, let's ask
where we are, why do we feel alienated
already perhaps or we feel dissatisfied with the
education, either we haven't had the opportunity to
receive or received an education that we feel
like whatever else it did didn't help us
with these core concepts. And one, it's easy,
and I don't mean to criticize educational institutions,
I've done that in the other series on
education, you can check that out if you
like, but there are just certain assumptions that
you can say okay these are just assumptions.
One, they're large systems, anytime you have a
large system they are by nature not geared
towards the individual, know sort of a slider,
right, you have to do on average as
you have 20 students in class, you have
to set the class standard somewhere. You're either
going to set it too high and say
you're going lose some students on the bottom,
you're going to set it too low and
you're going lose some students. Right? You know,
all of these variables are complex and so
whatever your criticisms are, that is one problem.
A bigger issue, I would say, besides that,
is simply our current assumption that education is
for jobs, that this is what you do.
If you get an education so that you
can get a job, you get a job,
then, you know, life is good and everything
falls into place. Of course, we know this
is in practice, we know this is absolutely
not true, but in functionally, still believe it
and we act as if we believe it.
And this has come about from a curious
historical, this is one of your classic correlation
does not equal causation moments in history. Because
in ancient world, again all the way up
until very recently, if you had an education
you were by definition an important person. You
were either a scribe for the king or
a priest or maybe a lawyer or a
doctor and so it set you apart it
made you into a sort of separate class
and so education correlated with power, authority, and
importance very directly. The link was not causal,
it was just correlative. And what happened as
economies grew, we moved in the Industrial Age,
maintained this truth was there, like, oh, look,
the economy is booming in the Industrial Age.
We have more educated people, and there was
this correlation of, you know, higher education societies
had more booming economies. And so this correlation
got built into our minds that, oh, the
more education you get. The more education your
society is, the wealthier your society is, therefore
universal education is good, and so let's get
more education because that'll bring more economic growth
which will make your society better. And this
flywheel got started. Now there are a lot
of other arguments for education by the way,
this is just one that has come to
absolutely dominate today. Then this got reversed, so
all these education people, pro education people and
pro economic people, has argued, look, education produces
a good economy, and so what slowly happened
is they said, okay, if that's true, then
let's see the payoff. You say it does,
it correlates strongly, so where is the payoff?
We wanna see, so then what's the best
amount of economic in return we can get
for the least amount of investment? See, once
you make the economic efficiency argument, ah, well
now you're in this world of trade offs
and feedbacks. You know, oh, well if you'll
go to school for four years and get
this much benefit, maybe we can get almost
that much benefit if you're going to school
for three years, or two years, or one
year, right? And so all this sort of
efficiency and economic output and outcome has come
to dominate the understanding of an education. And
it's very strange because much of it makes
no sense once you investigate this. So, for
instance, if you have a bachelor's degree, and
this is in The United States for the
last twenty years from like 1995, '90 '4,
'90 '5 is when this starts going up
to last year, to have recent statistics. If
you have a college degree, your education, your
unemployment rate has averaged over the last twenty
five years, thirty years, about 3%, give or
take. The highest ever recorded was 5%. So
what this means is if you have any
college degree, your unemployment rate is going to
be pretty spectacularly low. Mean capping out during
the great financial crisis at 5%, I mean
that's amazing. And you know you can take
unemployment statistics with a grain of salt blah
blah blah, but and yet you know however
you judge this that's pretty impressive. High school
is roughly double that. If you have a
high school education, your low is gonna be
average over those same times about 5.5%, high
unemployment is about 10%, again during the financial
crisis, so just about double that. If you
have no high school education or you didn't
graduate high school, it almost doubles again, so
your running unemployment rate's gonna be about 10%
with a high of about 15% during the
great financial crisis. This is again all higher.
By the way, if you're a minority, of
course, that will run those numbers up. So
what this tells us is having any education
is valuable from an employment standpoint. But, what
they keep trying to do is tell you
that you have to have a certain education.
So, it is better if you want to
be employed, because any degree will give you
this incredible boost in unemployment. Any college degree
is going to dramatically improve your chance of
employment and in fact even a high school
diploma will dramatically improve your chances of employment.
So what does this mean? And this is
where I think we make this mistake, then
the question is, what kind of employment do
I want? Right? If any degree, as we've
just seen, produces really, really strong employment rates,
then the question is what kind of employment
do you want? What are you interested in?
And then to answer that question, so if
we're just talking about the most basic stupid
education equals jobs argument, this still doesn't help
because what you have to then ask yourself
is what kind of job would I like?
And to answer that question you need to
know two things: you know drum roll please
who you are, you need to understand yourself,
and you need to understand a lot about
the world. And so you end up even
if you just make the dumb assumptions about
education is for employment, you end up back
where you needing the answers that you would
only be provided if you had a sort
of classical style education because to understand the
kind of job you would like and to
understand you need to know who you are
and you need to understand the kinds of
impacts variability and environments that you're likely to
work in in the world. And so this
seeming answer actually does nothing. It doesn't tell
us anything. It says, Oh, here's a bunch
of jobs, pick one that looks likely for
you, and then follow this course. And at
the end of it, you'll get that job
and then just shut up. And if you
don't like that job, well, you made a
mistake. The education system that didn't provide you
with the background to understand yourself and the
environment that you might be working in, well,
you can't blame them. It's your fault, right?
Like, this the way it's constructed. Another aspect,
so again, even if you make the most
base assumptions, you are right back to needing
to have the sort of background and understanding
that is core to a classical education. But
even more serious, think, or at least equally
serious, on this, is this increasing emphasis on,
specialization, and that they want people to have
increasingly specialized skills. By way this is both
for college, technical education, and trade education, right?
Become an electrician, become a plumber, become an
HVAC person, become a dentist, become a dental
hygienist, become a nurse, know these narrowing, like
the more specialized you are, the better off
you are, the more specialized your education, the
better your outcome will be. Now this is
a trick and it is absolutely counter. This
would be like the fundamentally most opposite kind
of education you could receive from a classical
education. And there's a couple of tricks here
that I want people to notice. One and,
again, it's not that any of these specialties
are bad, these are all great things to
pursue if you want to, but here's the
trick that happens quite often. And that is,
if I can get you to get a
specialized education, what this does is it transfers
the risk and the cost of a set
of skills from an employer to you. So
if I want to hire somebody who can
do HVAC, I can either hire somebody who
seems like a pretty good person, hard working,
we can get along with them, she's going
to do a great job, he knows what
he's up to, and train them. Now I've
taken the risk and I've taken the cost
on and I'm training you if I'm the
employer, right? Or I can get you to
do it yourself. So I can say you
go get those skills, you pay for them,
you put in the time, and then if
I need you, I'll hire you. And as
long as I need you, I'll hire you,
and as soon as I don't need you,
I'll just fire you. Or if the world
changes and we don't need HVAC people anymore,
now we need, you know, I don't know,
something else, then you're out of luck because
now you have this very narrow specialized sets
of skills, which for whatever reason were in
demand ten years ago, aren't in demand today.
This happens all the time. Certain specialties come
in to vogue, they go out of vogue,
they're easy to get, they're hard to get
right, this is all the swirling. And the
trick for this kind of education, is you
have a very narrow set of skills, and
if you take the risk and invest the
time, and then the need for those skills
go away, ah, you're screwed. Now, if the
need for those skills go away after someone
else invested the time, after someone else took
the risk, that's different, right? You're like, okay,
well I got paid, I learned a set
of skills, okay, you know, the world didn't
work out, that's fine. But notice where the
risk is being, who's taking on the risk.
And that shifting is is, you know, historically
strange because it used to be if you
wanted to learn something you would be apprenticed.
And the interesting things about apprenticeships were they
were generally indentured, so you had to work
for somebody for five years or seven years.
And that is because you're learning a trade,
which is valuable, and you're doing work for
them, which is valuable for the employer, but
at the end of it, you can go
on and set up shop for yourself. So,
the employers needed to make sure that they
got their years service out of you, got
your value, so you were paying for your
education by working in all of this. I'm
not suggesting we go back to that system,
but it does let you realize, like, oh,
back in the day, that the risk was
taken by the employer who was like, okay,
I'm gonna exploit this person and beat them
and be horrible in all kinds of ways,
but at least you're getting something for your
labor. In education now, the risk is very
much on to the student. Classical education is
the other way around, not specialization, but generalization,
so that no matter what happened in the
world, no matter what happened in the environment,
you have some means of responding and you
have a broad set of skills that will
allow you to adjust and adapt and continuously
maintain your relevance and because you understand the
world and you understand yourself you you don't
face this problem. So it strove to make
a, you know, classical in the in the
Renaissance period, they actually called it universal man.
Right? A person of skills and outlooks and
insight that were universally applicable. Of course, this
is a very high bar. Would they meet
it? Probably not. But this is the concept.
It's like, oh, even if some specialty goes
away or or some skill set is no
longer valid, that's fine because I have a
deep base of learning and insight and skills
developed that I can pivot into some other
realm. And what they wanna say, and they
do say by the way, in the modern
world is like, Oh, that was back then
when the world was less complicated. Today, the
world is very much more complicated. So we
need these very refined, highly specialized people who
don't have any other skills, who can only
do one thing because that's very efficient. Ah,
efficient for whom? It's efficient if you're a
large employer because when you need a specialty
you can hire it, when you don't need
it you can fire it, and because the
specialist is the one who's taken all the
risk, you get all the benefit and none
of the risk. That's genius, this is very
efficient for employers. For people, this is incredibly
inefficient and incredibly risky, as we keep discovering.
There's a reason people change careers now like
three or four times in an employed lifetime,
is because of the incredible transformative nature of
the world in which we live. So, not
saying it's bad to have a specialized set
of skills, probably very good and often very
fulfilling, which we'll get to. But this is
not the same as saying, oh, don't have
the other. These are not mutually exclusive and
this is the problem. It's like, oh, let's
get rid of all that waste of time
that we're spending giving people sort of a
more classically grounded sort of education, because what's
really efficient and where the big return is,
is in specialization. So those two notions of
who's taking the risk, make yourself way too
narrow, is one problem with the modern system.
And two is the notion that even if
you buy all their arguments, you still can't
escape the need to understand yourself and understand
the world if you're gonna make any sort
of meaningful choice about what sort of career
or job or education that you want. Right?
It's sort of a necessary element which we
tend to ignore. And so, what happens is,
you end up in a place where, even
though you might be educated, often people don't
feel like they got the education that is
serving them, because, oh, I went to a
law degree, I went to school for a
long time, I learned a lot, I read
a lot, I studied a lot, and yet
somehow I don't feel like I have a
full active life of the mind, I don't
feel like I'm integrated in an intellectual community.
Don't you know, those things seem to have
escaped me. And this is why, because that's
a different set of skills entirely. Another aspect
of this, and the last aspect of this
for the introduction, is the complete mistake that
we've made, pretty systematically I'd say, which is
the ancient world was very interested in power.
Oh my goodness, were they interested in power.
And therefore, they were somewhat interested in money.
What's happened in the modern world, and modern
cultural conception of the world, is there's been
this incredible mistake, which is to equate power
and money. Right? Like, if you have money,
you have power. And this, of course, is
a an obvious and one would even say
trivial sort of why even bring this up
kind of mistake. However, it is 100% core
to the nature of our understanding of the
world is that we think that oh, if
you get more money, you have more power.
And this is of course easily, it's just
not true. And so when you have an
education system that says, hey, if you get
a good job that makes good money, then
you're in business because the money itself justifies
everything else. See, this is another version of
that mistake because it's like, oh, what people
want, I would say on average, is not
so much money as the power that money
will deliver. However, money is a power and
money is a type of power, absolutely not
arguing that in any way. However, it can
only be seen as and be fulfilling when
one understands power generally, what kind of power
they want, how they're trying to act and
behave in the world, what sort of impacts
do they want. And the notion of just
more money better, which is of course what
we're told ad infinitum, hence by the way
that if you look at the different careers
that schools tend to promote and talk about,
they're consistently going oh well this one makes
more than that and this is a higher
paying group and this one is better job
opportunity higher so like therefore better job equals
higher paying job as opposed to understanding how
do you want to express your power, what
is your power, how do you want to
make this active in the world. So this
concept of self expression, of self efficacy, by
the way power in this sense, I mean,
is the power to express oneself and make
one's sort of views and desires real, to
make them manifest, to fulfill them. There's a
great passage in Plato where Socrates is arguing
with a guy, Socrates is just losing his
mind. I can't remember the name of the
guy, it should have just flew out of
my mind because it's one of my favorite
passages. Says, Socrates says, Well, what is the
good? And the guy says, Well, the good
is obviously to be able to do what
you want to provide for you and your
friends. Right? Like you, your friends, and your
family, you take care of them, and then
that's the good. And Socrates says, no. No.
No. No. But what about wisdom? And the
guy's like, I don't care about wisdom. It's
good to have the power to be able
to provide for your friends and your family
and able to do what you want. Like,
this is the good. And what philosophical history
has done is because we idolize Socrates so
much, rightly so, and Plato, rightly so, but
we forget that really, no, that's a very
argument right like this is actually the core
and it's and Socrates agrees on this oddly
slight digression here of course on Plato and
Socrates because what Socrates ends up arguing is
that no it's wisdom that allows you to
express yourself and understand the world and therefore
have the power you want. Wisdom is the
path to power and the other guy is
saying well maybe but there's all these other
paths to power too. So they're arguing actually
about the same thing like where does power
come from? But so they were not confused
about what they're trying to do. So if
you wanna be a musician, the ability to
play the music you wanna play, this is
a type of power. And it's a very
different type of power than someone who is,
say, an architect wants to be able to
design and build things. Right? That's a very
different type of power that is gonna be
manifested differently in the world, it's gonna be
a different path, I mean, there's all these
different elements in that. But for instance, it
just popped in my mind, if I mentioned
an architect, maybe a good example of this,
maybe not, we'll find out, is, you know,
people go to architect school and they want
to, I would say, on average they want
to design and build things and see them
in the world. Very laudable, very human, very
basic instinct. But if you end up at
a firm that does big things and you're
at a desk and you're scribbling all day,
and you might be making good salary, you
might be getting promoted, you might be doing
all the right things, but you're starving because
you're not expressing the fundamental power, the fundamental
power, like, no no no, I actually wanna
see the things I designed, built. I said,
see, that's different. You didn't probably go into
architecture school, maybe you did, saying I wanna
sit behind a computer all day doing drafts
of some sort of structural integrity thing for
some big company and I will never ever
see one of these things come to life
and I'll never be the person designing them.
It might be vastly more gratifying to go
to architecture school and build crazy shit on
the beach out of driftwood than it is
to work in a big firm in a
high rise building with air conditioning behind a
computer. Now, that might be great too, you
might love that, but right, so what the
kind of power you're trying to express really
matters and understanding that really matters. And so
what we've done is we've collapsed this in
the modern education system and said, oh, if
you have money, which equals have steady employment,
then you will have the power that you
want and therefore you can do what you
want. The problem is this assumes that everybody
knows what they want, everybody knows that money
delivers that, and if they get money, they
know how to spend it so that they
will be happy and their lives will be
fulfilled and their and their capacities will be
expressed and recognized. Obviously, this is a non
starter. Right? This is, again, an obvious falsehood
that doesn't need a lot of reflection to
to help us recognize that, yeah, this does
not work. I mean, fact, my my favorite
current example of this is, the degree to
which we've inculcated these values that that that
just if if you have the money, then
everything will be fine is the obsession. I
mean, like the the obsession again, which I've
mentioned before in the art world with the
price of art. If you see art ever
reported on in the in the general press,
it is almost all either got stolen and
then they'll say how much it was worth
when it was stolen or something goes to
auction and they say, oh, this is gonna
get this much money. And so the whole
metric of the world of art becomes equated
with money and then the power of art
becomes equated with the power of art to
make money which, again, is just this, like,
bizarre never never land of misunderstanding of the
nature and history and development of art and
how it influences our lives and just every
other aspect of that's possible. But what happens
then with art education is that becomes sort
of art employment education which is probably just
simply not art education at all in a
lot of ways. And so, when you think
about where we are, I think it's important
to note that the entire structure and nature
of our education system is to prepare people
for employment because we've made these mistakes about
what gives us power, where it comes from,
how we might experience it, and the entire
impetus therefore is the opposite of what a
classical education is. So we'll turn to that.
Now in the liberal, the quote unquote, the
original meaning of a liberal education was an
education for a free person. And what they
meant by a free person is a, not
a slave, but also someone who is free
to choose whatever they wanted to do, or
at least free ish. And if you think
about it in those terms, like any sense
of studying for a particular outcome other than
your own pleasure, own interests, own pursuit of
what you think is important, is a betrayal
of a liberal education. And so again it's
hard to articulate how unbelievably different the approach
was in its core assumptions and its core
motivations. And so when I say this is
going to be an alienating process, that's what
I mean. You're having to unlearn the sort
of complete outlook that says that these things
are functional for other than your own personal
use. These things that the pursuit of education
is to get, you know, get money, get
money, more money, more efficiently equals more better.
Right? Those sorts of assumptions simply, they have
to go away. And it's easy to articulate
them this way and you go, of course,
that's silly and we know this isn't true,
but boy are they inside. And you'll run
into them consistently. And finally, this is in
no way to say that there's, again, anything
wrong with the specialization of, you know, we
do need jobs. We do live in a
world where, you know, making a living is
a thing and we should not be alienated
from that process. And that's what I think
the most bizarre outcome of our current system
is, is that it makes something that could
be great alienating, right? Because we misunderstand what
we're doing, feel often people feel suckered into
it, they feel like they don't have many
options. This is, by the way, is one
thing not to feel like you have many
options if you don't have much education, you
know, because you maybe you don't, maybe they
are limited, but the more you understand the
world, the more background tends, the broader those
opportunities tend to be. But the narrowing of
specialization creates this kind of crazy world where
highly educated people feel very trapped, which is
the opposite of a liberal education which is
by definition supposed to free you, right? The
degree to which you feel trapped is the
degree to which you have not gotten basically
a good education. A good education is designed
to make you feel free, make you feel
powerful, make you feel efficacious at all times.
Is one way to read that, if you
understand yourself and the world. And so it
is the example of we live in a
world where we have people who are obese
and malnourished which is an impressive achievement right?
Starving and malnourished no problem. Obese and not
mal nourished, that's easy too. But to be
obese and malnourished, I mean that takes some
real amazing cultural wrongness to achieve that. However,
think about this in terms of education: that
we have a lot of educated people who
feel really trapped, who feel very much enslaved
to a system, which is to say that
what they think of as education and how
they've been educated is really the polar opposite
of what the ideal of education in the
classical world, which was nothing if not a
desire to not be a slave. How do
I free myself? How do I free my
mind so I can understand the world and
myself, so that I can express myself and
my capacities to the fullest extent possible? That
was the concept. This was the idea. And
so, when we find ourselves in a world,
I was just reading articles in preparation of
this for the people who are like, Google's
going through a rough patch apparently, making all
the money in the world, but the people
who are working there are unhappy, they don't
feel compensated, they feel nervous about their jobs,
they feel miserable, they feel overworked. This is
sort of going downhill ish. One, first world
problems like, hey, you're working at Google, you're
making plenty of money, maybe shut up. But
think about what this means too, These are
highly educated, highly motivated by all standards of
our culture, highly successful people who feel miserable,
unhappy, trapped, and don't like their jobs. Which
is to say, they don't understand what education
is for. Because if you feel miserable and
happily entrapped, the ancient world would say, well,
you got a bad education, because that is
the definition of a bad education. So, this
is a process of how to begin to
redress this. How do we begin to re
educate our minds to do this ourselves, so
that we can increasingly and more fully express
ourselves. And again, this is not a purity
process, Like we're not magically going to transform
everything, we're never gonna have to do anything
we don't want, It's all that nonsense. No,
this is just a process of how we
go about and why we go about learning
or relearning or unlearning all the steps. By
the way, unlearning the hardest of the steps
to unlearn something is just brutally difficult. So
that we have new thought patterns and new
outlooks that allow us again to understand our
world and ourselves better because that is the
real goal. So, conclusion to introduction. Part one
will come very soon, will be an introduction
to the Trivium, Step one Literacy. Thank you
very much.